Let's first of all start with the payment process, how does this work?
Well it's a pretty long process,
we start by collecting the payment method,
so the credit card data typically. We then have to verify that, is the credit card data
correct,
is it expired,
is the number correct?
We then have to charge it and after we charge it, we have to manage payments,
so that includes things like fraud protection,
also managing disputes and so on.
And last but not least, we of course have to process the order in our app, so in our server side code,
for example that we store it in the database there.
Now all the payment related things here are pretty complex tasks, both from a legal and a technical
side and therefore typically you outsource them
and by the way, even very big companies outsource this. Stripe is a very popular company offering payment
services,
it offers a great integration and it's super easy to add to any application as you will see in this module.
How does it work?
Well we have our client and our server,
so that is all the code we own and we wrote and in the client, we'll collect credit card data.
We'll do that with the help of stripe and we'll send it to the stripe servers which are not owned by
us but by that company to validate that input. Once it is valid, stripe will return a token to us which
basically encodes or which includes that credit card data and the confirmation that it is correct.
We send that token to our server,
so to our code and in our code, we create a charge or we charge this payment method then with the help
of stripe again.
So we create a payment, an object, a charge object, we send that to stripe with that token and with our price
included and stripe will then do the actual charging, do the actual managing
and we will get a response once this is done and then we can also continue with our code and edit this
or store this in the database and so on.
So this is generally how that will work,
now let me walk you through that step by step.